updated contribution doc #28476 (#28871)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/contribute.rst

- It involves Python features such as decorators and context managers, which
  have subtleties due to our implementation decisions.

.. _first_contribution:

First Contributions & New Contributors
--------------------------------------

If this is your first open source contribution, or first time contributing to Matplotlib,
and you need help or guidance finding a good first issue, look no further. This section will
guide you through each step.

1. Navigate to the `issues page <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/>`_.
2. Filter labels with `"Difficulty: Easy" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/Difficulty%3A%20Easy>`_ & `"Good first Issue" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/good%20first%20issue>`_ (optional).
3. Click on an issue you would like to work on, and check to see if the issue is already claimed.
4. If the issue is claimed, tag the user working on the issue, and ask to collaborate (optional).
5. Check the `pull requests (i.e. #28476) <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+%2328476>`_ and filter by the issue number to make sure the issue is not in progress.

> 6. After steps 3 & 4 are done, and no one is working on the issue, comment on the issue to state you are working on it.

Author: I think dedicating own call out/drop down is a good move. I would keep 'choose an issue' in the same place and move 'Good first issues' & 'First Contributions & New Contributions in a "New Contributors" callout/dropdown

There is going to slight information redundancy, between what is in "Choose an Issue" and the "New Contributors" section, but I think that is ok. Idea here is new folks can just stay in that 1 section and have it walk through each step (reduce friction).

> 6. After steps 3 & 4 are done, and no one is working on the issue, comment on the issue to state you are working on it.

Author: This would be an organizational decision, but maybe set max time of no activity: no active comments/discussions within issue or idle/open PR, people can just work on the issue. This way you dont need to moderate, simple yes/no check. If inactive >1 month, free to take, else, try to contact the original contributor. 

Let me know what you think, because I think you're suggesting we just drop that entire line and rewrite it to include drafts?

> 6. After steps 3 & 4 are done, and no one is working on the issue, comment on the issue to state you are working on it.

Author: Thank you for sharing the link, unfortunately I am working during the meeting and cannot attend. I also created a new PR based on your recommendations and suggestions, thank you for the guidance!

- It involves Python features such as decorators and context managers, which
  have subtleties due to our implementation decisions.

.. _first_contribution:

First Contributions
-------------------

If this is your first open source contribution, or first time contributing to Matplotlib,
and you need help or guidance finding a good first issue, look no further. This section will
guide you through each step.

1. Navigate to the `issues page <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/>`_.
2. Filter labels with `"Difficulty: Easy" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/Difficulty%3A%20Easy>`_ & `"Good first Issue" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/good%20first%20issue>`_ (optional).

> 3. Click on an issue you would like to work on, and check to see if the issue a PR has been opened to resolve the issue.

Author: The three I can think of right now are: 

1. Add an extra step here i.e. "A good way to judge if you chose a suitable issue is by asking yourself 'Can I independently submit a PR in 1-2 weeks?'" This wording still fosters collaboration, and is telling the person to self check. 
2. Add a comment within the [PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md?plain=1) to say something along the lines of "Please explain in 1-3 sentences your implementation choices." This should be added into the summary section as well as a new check in the checklist. I would just consider how this would affect the larger contributor population. Personally, this could be good for the admins because their rationales would be explicit, so you'd save some time trying to sort out their logic/thought process. 
3. Combination of 1 & 2: add the additional text requirement in the md file, and add an additional step between steps 3 & 4 in `First Contributions' (see below). Optional (recommended): pull in the checklist within the [PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md?plain=1)

I know this creates redundant content, but for the sake of minimizing friction for the contributor, I think step 3 is the best route while adding the checklist to the contribution.rst file.

> 3. Click on an issue you would like to work on, and check to see if the issue a PR has been opened to resolve the issue.

Author: Awesome, do you want me to make changes to the pull_request_template.md to include the implementation choices part in this pr as well?

For more detailed instructions on how to set up Matplotlib for development and
best practices for contribution, see :ref:`installing_for_devs` and
:ref:`development-workflow`.

Ways to contribute
==================

> .. dropdown:: Do I really have something to contribute to Matplotlib?

Author: If you mean to move this section to the top, I agree, creates more logical progression to the rest of the page. Let me know, I can move it!

     - [ ] explain implementation choices in the summary

     - [ ] new and changed code is `tested <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/testing.html>`_

     - [ ] *Plotting related* features are demonstrated in an `example <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/document.html#write-examples-and-tutorials>`_

     - [ ] *New Features* and *API Changes* are noted with a `directive and release note <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/api_changes.html#announce-changes-deprecations-and-new-features>`_

     - [ ] Documentation complies with `general <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/document.html#write-rest-pages>`_ and `docstring <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/document.html#write-docstrings>`_ guidelines

.. _start-contributing:

Get started
===========

There is no pre-defined pathway for new contributors -- we recommend looking at
existing issue and pull request discussions, and following the conversations
during pull request reviews to get context. Or you can deep-dive into a subset

> of the code-base to understand what is going on.

Author: I agree, especially after the restructure of subsections.

- It involves Python features such as decorators and context managers, which
  have subtleties due to our implementation decisions.

.. _first_contribution:

First contributions
-------------------

If this is your first open source contribution, or your first time contributing to Matplotlib,
and you need help or guidance finding a good first issue, look no further. This section will

> guide you through each step.

Author: Thoughts on changing it to this instead? Colon makes more sense when structured like this in my opinion. I think you changed the period to colon because that sentence reads a bit awkward. 

If this is your first open source contribution, or your first time contributing to Matplotlib,
and you need help or guidance finding a good first issue, look no further: this section will
guide you through each step.

  exploration, making suggestions, or follow-up discussions to clarify a good
  path to resolve the issue.
- It involves Python features such as decorators and context managers, which
  have subtleties due to our implementation decisions.

.. _first_contribution:

First Contributions
-------------------

If this is your first open source contribution, or first time contributing to Matplotlib,
and you need help or guidance finding a good first issue, look no further. This section will
guide you through each step.

1. Navigate to the `issues page <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/>`_.
2. Filter labels with `"Difficulty: Easy" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/Difficulty%3A%20Easy>`_ & `"Good first Issue" <https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/good%20first%20issue>`_ (optional).
3. Click on an issue you would like to work on, and check to see if the issue a PR has been opened to resolve the issue.
4. If the issue is a work in progress, tag the user working on the issue, and ask to collaborate (optional).
5. Check the pull requests (i.e. :ghpull:`28476`)  and filter by the issue number to make sure the issue is not in progress.

> 6. After steps 3 & 5 are done, and a PR does not exist, open a 'draft (incomeplete) PR <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/pr_guide.html>'_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After steps 3 & 5 are done, and a PR does not exist, open a `draft (incomeplete) PR <https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/pr_guide.html>`_.
```

Author: > 

Thank you for the recommendations, all changes have been made and pushed up
